---
layout: problempost
title: "Python Problem Set 2: Math"
date: 2018-02-4 00:00:00 -0400
due: 2018-02-6 23:59:59
categories: problems
---

# Mathematics

Let's play with some math!

## Problem 0: operators.py

Write a program called **operators.py** that asks for two integers and prints their sum, difference, product, quotient, and remainder (use modulus `%`) like below.

### Example Run

```
./operators.py
Enter a number: 7
Enter a number: 3
Sum: 10
Difference: 4
Product: 21
Quotient: 2.3333
Remainder: 1
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python2/operators@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io](cs50.io) Make sure **operators.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python2/operators@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

# Problem 1: hour.py

Write a program called **hour.py** that asks for the current hour (12) and prints the time 5 hours from then as below.

### Example Run

```
./hour.py
What hour is it? 9
In 5 hours it will be 2 o'clock
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python2/hour@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io](cs50.io) Make sure **hour.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python2/hour@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

# Problem 2: eff.py

Write a program called **eff.py** that asks for **float** values for a basketball player's shooting percentage (as a decimal), points scored, rebounds, and assists. Then, using the following formula, calculate an efficiency rating:

`shooting_percentage * points_scored + 1.2 * rebounds + 2.4 * assists`

Make sure your program looks like the example program below when ran!

### Example Run

```
./eff.py
Shooting Percentage: .45
Points: 21.1
Rebounds: 5.3
Assists: 7.1
This player's efficiency rating is 32.895!
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python2/eff@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io](cs50.io) Make sure **eff.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python2/eff@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.
