---
layout: problempost
title: "Python Problem 0: Hello, Python!"
date: 2018-01-30 00:00:00 -0400
due: 2018-02-2 23:59:59
categories: problems
---

# Python!

Let's get comfortable with python! We're going to explore this dynamic programming language for the majority of the semester. All of these problems play with the `print()` function. Be sure to match output described exactly!

## Problem 0: Hello.py

Create a python program called **hello.py** that prints `Hello, world!` to the screen, verbatim (just like in class)!

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python0/hello@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io](cs50.io) Make sure **hello.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python0/hello@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

## Problem 1: Mom's Spaghet

Create a python program called **spaghetti.py** that prints the following to the terminal using **only one** `print()` call!

```
There's vomit on his sweater already
Mom's spaghetti
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python0/spaghetti@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io](cs50.io) Make sure **spaghetti.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python0/spaghetti@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

## Problem 2: Hello 2.0

Create a python program called **hello2.py** that asks the user for a name with the prompt `What's your name?`. Then, the program should print `Hello, {name}!` where `{name}` is the user-entered name.

### Example Run

```
~/workspace/ $ python hello2.py
What's your name? Shrek
Hello, Shrek!
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python0/hello2@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io](cs50.io) Make sure **hello2.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python0/hello2@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

## Problem 3: Faces

Create a python program called **faces.py** that prints the following faces as seen in the example run. Be sure your output and the example run match up exactly (including whitespaces!).

### Example Run

```
~/workspace/ $ python faces.py
^ ^
 -

Q('.'Q)

? ?
 >
~~~
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python0/faces@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io](cs50.io) Make sure **faces.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python0/faces@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.
