---
layout: problempost
title: "Python Problem Set 4: Loops"
date: 2018-02-21 00:00:00 -0400
due: 2018-02-23 23:59:59
categories: problems
---

## Help

For help with loops, [heres a link to a website with some tutorials!](https://www.learnpython.org/en/Loops)

## Problem 0: Keep Guessing
Create a program called **guess1.py** asks the user to guess a number. The number the user is trying to guess is 42. If the user guesses too high, too low, or gets it, let the user know like below!

### Example Run
```
~/workspace/ $ guess1.py
Guess the number: 17
Too low!
Guess the number: 61
Too high!
Guess the number: 42
You got it!
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python3/guess1@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io(cs50.io) Make sure **guess1.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python3/guess1@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

## Problem 1: Lister
Create a program called **lister.py** that asks the user for an integer representing a length of a list to be constructed. Then, with a for loop, fill the contents of a list of strings of the length given to you. Lastly, print the contents to the screen!

### Example Run
```
~/workspace/ $ lister.py
How many elements: 5
Give me an element: pizza
Give me an element: hot dogs
Give me an element: hamburger
Give me an element: sushi
Give me an element: Oreos
["pizza", "hot dogs", "hamburger", "sushi", "Oreos"]
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python3/lister@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io(cs50.io) Make sure **lister.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python3/lister@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

## Problem 2: I Can't Even...
Create a program called **even.py** that, using a for loop, prints the numbers 1 through 15, line by line, with a string noting if the integer is even or odd.

**Hint:** `5 % 2 == 1`, `4 % 2 == 0`, `15 % 2 == 1`, and `8 % 2 == 0`

### Example Run
```
~/workspace/ even.py
1 odd
2 even
3 odd
4 even
5 odd
6 even
7 odd
8 even
9 odd
10 even
11 odd
12 even
13 odd
14 even
15 odd
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python3/even@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io](cs50.io) Make sure **even.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python3/even@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.
