---
layout: problempost
title: "Python Problem Set 3: Control Flow"
date: 2018-02-7 00:00:00 -0400
due: 2018-02-9 23:59:59
categories: problems
---


## Problem 0: One Guess
Create a program called **guess0.py** asks the user to guess a number. The number the user is trying to guess is 37. If the user guesses too high, too low, or gets it, let the user know like below!

### Example Run
```
~/workspace/ $ guess0.py
Guess the number: 17
Too low!
~/workspace/ $ guess0.py
Guess the number: 61
Too high!
~/workspace/ $ guess0.py
Guess the number: 37
You got it!
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python3/guess1@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io](cs50.io) Make sure **guess0.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python3/guess1@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

## Problem 1: hour2.py

Write a program called **hour2.py** that asks for the current hour, a number of hours to pass, and then prints the time after. Only the numbers 1-12 should be used for hours (HINT: % 12 will limit to 0-11, but 0 is equivalent to 0... Hmm...)

### Example Run

```
./hour2.py
What hour is it? 9
How many hours will pass? 6
In 6 hours it will be 3 o'clock
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python3/hour2@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io](cs50.io) Make sure **hour2.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python3/hour2@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

## Problem 2: truth.py

Write a program called **truth.py** that prints values of various conditions based on two user-inputed Boolean values.

### Example Run

```
A (true or false): true
B (true or false): false

A and B: false
A or B: true
Not A: false
Not B: true
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python3/truth@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io](cs50.io) Make sure **truth.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python3/truth@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

## Problem 3: Calc

Use the command `touch calc.py` to create a python file called `calc.py`. It's essential that the name is exact otherwise your checks and submission won't work later!

Your goal is to create a calculator in Python! Be sure to support addition (using +), subtraction(using -), multiplication(using x), division(using /), and exponents(using ^)! This program should ask the user for a float, followed by an operation, followed by another float, then print the result.

Example Output:
```
First number: 5
Operation: x
Second number: 2.5
12.5
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python3/calc@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### Submission
Head to [CS50.io](cs50.io) Make sure **truth.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python3/calc@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

## Problem 4: Schedule

Create a program called **schedule.py** that prompts the user for day of the week and time of day (hours and minutes in military time) and determines if the user is supposed to be in school at BH (assume an 8:00 am to 4:45 pm schedule).

Be sure the program only outputs either `yes` or `no`.

Example Output:
```
What day is it? Friday
What time is it (hours)? 10
What time is it (minutes)? 30
yes
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python3/schedule@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### Submission

Head to [CS50.io](cs50.io) Make sure **schedule.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python3/schedule@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.
