---
layout: problempost
title: "Python Problem Set 5: Functions"
date: 2018-03-04 00:00:00 -0400
due: 2018-03-7 23:59:59
categories: problems
---

## Help

For help with functions, [heres a link to a website with some tutorials!](https://www.learnpython.org/en/Functions)

## Problem 0: Quidditch!
You want to calculate the final score for a team that has just participated in an exciting quidditch match using a program called **quidditch.py**. Building on the code below, implement a function that takes two variables as input — an int indicating the number of times the team got the Quaffle through the other team's hoops, and a bool indicating whether or not they caught the snitch -- and returns that team's final score (what would the return type be?).

Recall that each "goal" in quidditch is worth 10 points, and that catching the snitch is worth 150 points.

### Distribution Code

Copy this code to start your implementation!

```
def main():
    goal_num = int(input("Number of times your chasers got the quaffle through a hoop: "))
    snitch_caught = int(input("Did your team's seeker catch the snitch? Enter 1 if true, 0 otherwise: "))
    score = final_score(goal_num, snitch_caught)
    print("Your team's final score is: " + str(score))

# TODO: define final_score()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python5/quidditch@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io(cs50.io)] Make sure **quidditch.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python5/quidditch@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

## Problem 1: Maximum
Create a program called **maximum.py** that asks the user enter 5 integers (you'll want to use `append()` to add new numbers as the user enters them. Remember how?). Then, the program will call a function called **maximum** that will return the highest number, printing this value to the screen. Be sure to use the distribution code for this program!

**IMPORTANT: There is indeed a `max()` function built into Python. To get credit for this problem, you are to create this functionality! In other words, you may not use `max()` in your solution.**

### Example Run
```
~/workspace/ $ maximum.py
Give me an integer: 8
Give me an integer: 11
Give me an integer: 27
Give me an integer: 17
Give me an integer: -5
Maximum: 27
```

### Distribution Code

Copy this code to start your implementation!

```
def main():
    numbers = []
    # TODO: get 5 integers from user and append onto numbers
    print("Maximum: " + str(maximum(numbers)))

# TODO: define maximum()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python5/maximum@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io(cs50.io)] Make sure **maximum.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python5/maximum@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

## Problem 2: Now From Scratch... Verifier!
Create a program called **verifier.py** that asks for two integers to be added and their potential sum in the main function, then calls a function called **verify** that checks if the sum is correct. If so, the program should print "Correct!" to the screen; otherwise, "Incorrect!".

No distribution code for this one! 😆 ❤️

### Example Runs
```
~/workspace/ verifier.py
What is the first number to be added? 5
What is the second number to be added? 3
What is the sum? 8
Correct!
```
```
~/workspace/ verifier.py
What is the first number to be added? 27
What is the second number to be added? 14
What is the sum? 10
Incorrect!
```

### Checks

To run checks, run `check50 compsci.one/python5/verifier@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io](cs50.io) Make sure **verifier.py** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python5/verifier@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.

## Problem 3: Written Answers

In a file called **functions.txt** answer the following questions, aiming for a few sentences per question (some may be longer than others):

1. Why would we want to create functions? What are some benefits of doing so?
2. Can you give an example of a function built into Python that has made your life easier when programming so far?
3. Why do you think we sometimes create a "main function"?
4. What's the purpose of `return`? What are parameters?
5. Imagine you're trying to explain the concept of functions to a friend without a compsci.one shirt. What would you do to describe their functionality? What details do you think are essential to share so that s/he can create their own functions?

### How to Submit

Head to [CS50.io](cs50.io) Make sure **functions.txt** is in your current directory and type `submit50 compsci.one/python5/functions@spencertiberi/checks` in the terminal.
